NET-3860 - [Supportability] consul troubleshoot CLI for verifying ports (#18329)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/commands/troubleshoot/ports.mdx

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Troubleshoot Ports'
description: >-
  The `consul troubleshoot ports` Helps troubleshoot TCP ports by printing if they are open or closed.
---

# Consul Troubleshoot Upstreams

Command: `consul troubleshoot ports`

The `troubleshoot ports` Helps troubleshoot TCP ports by printing if they are open or closed.

## Usage

Usage: `consul troubleshoot ports [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-host=<value>` - Host name to troubleshoot TCP ports for. Host can also be set by environment variable `CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR`
- `-ports=<value>` - Custom ports to troubleshoot (comma-seperated).

## Examples

> Checks for TCP connectivity of default ports of consul in case -ports is not passed as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example checks the default ports Consul server uses for TCP connectivity. Note that the `CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR` environment variable is set to `localhost`. As a result, the `-host` flag is not required.
```

> Default ports are listed [here](/consul/docs/install/ports)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Required Ports](/consul/docs/install/ports) for additional information.
```

```shell-session
$ export CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR=localhost
$ consul troubleshoot ports
TCP: Port 8501 on localhost is open.
TCP: Port 8502 on localhost is open.
TCP: Port 8503 on localhost is open.
TCP: Port 8302 on localhost is open.
TCP: Port 8300 on localhost is open.
TCP: Port 8600 on localhost is open.
TCP: Port 8301 on localhost is open.
TCP: Port 8500 on localhost is open.
```

> Check TCP ports status on different host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example checks TCP ports status on the `hashicorp.com` host.
```
